README.md, before:

[![build](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/tigerros/ruci/correctness.yml?label=build)](https://github.com/tigerros/ruci/actions/workflows/correctness.yml)
[![coverage](https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/gh/tigerros/ruci)](https://app.codecov.io/gh/tigerros/ruci/)
[![docs.rs](https://img.shields.io/docsrs/ruci?logo=docs.rs&label=docs.rs)](https://docs.rs/ruci/)
[![crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/ruci?logo=rust)](https://crates.io/crates/ruci)
[![license](https://img.shields.io/crates/l/ruci)](https://github.com/tigerros/ruci/blob/master/LICENSE)

# ruci
**R**ust **U**niversal **C**hess **I**nterface.

This crate parses and creates UCI messages.
It follows the [UCI protocol](https://backscattering.de/chess/uci) and uses [`shakmaty`](https://crates.io/crates/shakmaty) for relevant types.
The UCI protocol is the most widely used way for GUI's to communicate with engines and vice versa.

`#![no_std]` compatible, unless you enable the `engine-connection` feature.

See the [examples](https://github.com/tigerros/ruci) for a demo on how to send and receive messages.

## Comparison
There's two other crates that I'm aware of which serve a similar purpose. *Keep in mind that this is a shallow comparison, I haven't looked extensively and I am not an expert.*

- [`vampirc-uci`](https://crates.io/crates/vampirc-uci):
  - Doesn't use `shakmaty`, which AFAIK is the go-to chess crate now.
  - API problems:
    - Doesn't separate GUI and engine messages. This is bad if you want to communicate with an engine/GUI, because you're going to need functions like `send_message` and `read_message`, where you want to specify which type of message you are sending and receiving. It's not impossible to do this with `vampirc-uci`, but you won't have strong type guarantees.
    - Doesn't have separate structs/enums for messages. Like the above, this is bad if you want to represent a specific message. With `vampirc-uci`, you can only represent the whole enum.
  - Doesn't provide IO communication with an engine.
  - More dependencies; [`pest`](https://crates.io/crates/pest) and [`chrono`](https://crates.io/crates/chrono). `ruci` only has shakmaty and two macros, which don't get included in the final binary.
  - Not `#![no_std]` compatible.
  - More tests, but I don't know the coverage.
- [`shakmaty-uci`](https://crates.io/crates/shakmaty-uci): this library is based on/inspired by `vampirc-uci`, so all of the above bullet points apply, except:
  - Uses `shakmaty`.
  - Uses [`nom`](https://crates.io/crates/nom) instead of `pest` and doesn't use `chrono`.
  - Is `#![no_std]` compatible.

*`ruci` might also faster since it doesn't use a parsing library, but I'm not making any claims or showing results because I only have some
toy benchmarks (but yes, they do technically favor `ruci`).*

## Feature flags
- `engine-connection`: enables a structs to manage the IO when it comes to working with a UCI engine. Note that this will add [`tokio`](https://crates.io/crates/tokio) as a dependency.
- `serde`: enables `Serialize` and `Deserialize` for most types. All the implementations are derived with no parameters.

Commit message:

update readme export errors in root
since every error ends with "Error" i figure theres no point in having a module "errors"

README.md, after:

[![build](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/tigerros/ruci/correctness.yml?label=build)](https://github.com/tigerros/ruci/actions/workflows/correctness.yml)
[![coverage](https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/gh/tigerros/ruci)](https://app.codecov.io/gh/tigerros/ruci/)
[![docs.rs](https://img.shields.io/docsrs/ruci?logo=docs.rs&label=docs.rs)](https://docs.rs/ruci/)
[![crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/ruci?logo=rust)](https://crates.io/crates/ruci)
[![license](https://img.shields.io/crates/l/ruci)](https://github.com/tigerros/ruci/blob/master/LICENSE)

# ruci
**R**ust **U**niversal **C**hess **I**nterface.

This crate parses and creates UCI messages.
It follows the [UCI protocol](https://backscattering.de/chess/uci) and uses [`shakmaty`](https://crates.io/crates/shakmaty) for relevant types.
The UCI protocol is the most widely used way for GUI's to communicate with engines and vice versa.

`#![no_std]` compatible, unless you enable the `engine-connection` feature.

See the [examples](https://github.com/tigerros/ruci) for a demo on how to send and receive messages.

## Comparison
There's two other crates that I'm aware of which serve a similar purpose. *Keep in mind that this is a shallow comparison, I haven't looked extensively and I am not an expert.*

- [`vampirc-uci`](https://crates.io/crates/vampirc-uci):
  - Doesn't use `shakmaty`, which AFAIK is the go-to chess crate now.
  - Doesn't separate the two types of messages (engine, GUI) and specific messages. It just has one big enum which mostly uses enum fields for message data. This is really inconvenient because you can't represent specific messages, only the whole `Message` enum.
  - Doesn't provide IO communication with an engine.
  - More dependencies; [`pest`](https://crates.io/crates/pest) and [`chrono`](https://crates.io/crates/chrono). `ruci` only has shakmaty and two macros, which don't get included in the final binary.
  - Not `#![no_std]` compatible.
  - More tests, but I don't know about the coverage.
- [`shakmaty-uci`](https://crates.io/crates/shakmaty-uci): this library is based on/inspired by `vampirc-uci`, so all of the above bullet points apply, except:
  - Uses `shakmaty`.
  - Uses [`nom`](https://crates.io/crates/nom) instead of `pest` and doesn't use `chrono`.
  - Is `#![no_std]` compatible.

*`ruci` might also faster since it doesn't use a parsing library, but I'm not making any claims or showing results because I only have some
toy benchmarks (but yes, they do technically favor `ruci`).*

## Feature flags
- `engine-connection`: enables a structs to manage the IO when it comes to working with a UCI engine. Note that this will add [`tokio`](https://crates.io/crates/tokio) as a dependency.
- `serde`: enables `Serialize` and `Deserialize` for most types. All the implementations are derived with no parameters.
